It's extraordinary.
I must remind you
( device chittering )
a potential security risk.
that it is also
It's losing power.
I'd like to move it
to Engineering
before it drains completely.
to see if I can repair it
I suggest we allow
the power to drain.
We should take
the opportunity
to examine it
while it is idle.
Then we can decide
whether it is wise
to repair it.
Captain, this thing
unfamiliar power source.
has a completely
Once it stops working,
it's very possible I'll never be
able to get it going again,
and we'll have lost
an opportunity
to study a new technology.
of exploration, Mr. Tuvok.
This is a ship
The power's surging.
TORRES:
a way to stabilize it,
If we can't find
we're going to lose it.
with an EPS power conduit?
What about an interface
energy signatures
are incompatible,
Well, the
buy us some time.
but it might
( whirring )
Okay, let's give it
a try.
five percent maximum output.
TORRES: Two-second burst,
On my mark.
Now.
We're losing it.
Maybe we're overloading
its systems.
at lower power.
a longer burst
Let's try
Got it.
at three percent.
Five seconds
On your mark.
Now.
it's working.
I think
is holding steady.
EPS flow
EM field leakage
is minimal.
We'll have to watch the pressure
at the connector.
Let's try to keep it below
eighty-five percent.
Flux capacitance is spiking
intermittently,
that's the problem.
but I don't think
Let's reinforce the power
conduit coupling,
just to be on
the safe side.
theme music playing )
( dramatic
TORRES: It's suffered
a lot of damage,
the EPS charge
but I think
for at least 18 hours.
will keep it running
It's not a cyborg.
It's completely robotic.
No organ components
of any kind.
This looks like some kind
of programming center.
But I'm not detecting
any pathways
for transmitting
information.
It's got arms, legs.
We saw it move its head.
to perform motor functions.
It's clearly designed
commands come from?
So where do those
Maybe it needs to interface
outside source.
with an
Speaking of sources,
seems to be what powers
this energy module
the entire mechanism.
to run on EPS energy.
It isn't designed
of super-conducting plasma.
It runs on some kind
( gasps )
If we keep charging it,
we may end up destroying it.
( high-pitched tone )
( babbling )
to communicate.
It's trying
We don't know that. It may just
be some kind of recording.
Pralor! Pralor!
Pralor! Pralor! Pralor!
trying to say?
What are you
What's "Pralor"?
If you can hear me,
try to move...
Try to move your arm.
B'Elanna, we don't even know
if it can see you,
much less understand
a word you're saying.
We've got to figure out
a way to fix it.
We've been trying for hours.
We need a break.
The EPS charge should
hold till morning.
You go ahead.
I could use some time
alone to think.
If you're staying,
I'm staying.
Get some rest, Harry.
You may think you're tougher
than everybody else,
B'Elanna Torres,
but I can go without sleep
just as long as you can.
Don't make me laugh,
Starfleet.
pull rank on you either.
And don't make me
If you insist.
come up with anything...
But let me know if you
Lieutenant.
TORRES: Chief Engineer's Log:
Supplemental.
I've tried 13 different methods
the robot's power source
of reinitializing
and I'm still having no luck.
to go to the mess hall
So I've decided
declining energy reserves.
to recharge my own
another pot of coffee.
Neelix, I need
isn't officially served
Even though breakfast
hour and a half,
for another
a glass of traggle nectar.
I'd be happy to pour you
I will even fix you
seven-spice omelet.
my special Jibalian
Just coffee.
but two pots of Lauris blend
I'm sorry, B'Elanna,
is the absolute limit.
You're cutting me off?
you're right.
Oh, I guess
taste almost palatable.
It was starting to
Still no idea how to revive
our mechanized guest?
All I've been
able to do
the inevitable.
is postpone
power depletion
The constant
bleeding artery,
is like a
and haven't got
a tourniquet.
when I was trying
I remember
for my Jibalian omelet.
to perfect the recipe
I tried everything--
a little more spith basil,
a little less prishic--
but I couldn't get it right.
Finally, I fell asleep
from exhaustion.
at the counter.
Right there
And then, in a dream,
it came to me.
but the omelet needed seven.
I was using six spices,
Let me guess.
Leola root.
Nimian sea salt,
actually.
Yes, salt--
Salt?
the most common spice
in the galaxy.
But I was too tired,
so I couldn't see it.
That is...
a very interesting
story, Neelix.
some more coffee?
Now, how about
To bed.
I said to bed...
I'm going.
( sighs )
( hollow knocking )
Anybody home?
What's that?
You think I should
go to bed too?
Well...
I guess I'm outnumbered.
Computer, activate Emergency
Medical Holographic program.
state the nature.
Please
If there has been a change
in the official dress code,
I certainly wish someone
would have informed me.
This is what I sleep in.
time to change.
I didn't have
I see.
May I assume your haste
is an indication
that you have a medical
problem of some kind?
problem actually,
An engineering
might have some insight.
but I thought you
Hm. I should remind you
I'm a doctor...
Not an engineer. Right.
But this isn't a typical
engineering problem.
trying to repair a robot.
I've been working on
The mechanical man.
Ah, yes.
Kes told me about it.
Fascinating.
He's about to die.
Die?
Die. Stop functioning.
Whatever.
Unless I can figure out a way to
sustain his main energy source.
What kind of energy source
are we talking about?
of chromo-dynamic module
Well, it's some type
a tri-polymer plasma.
powered by
is contaminated.
But the plasma
It's decaying.
Hm. Like diseased blood.
Right. It can't retain enough
energy to keep the module
running.
Have you considered
a transfusion?
You mean replacing
the plasma itself?
Well, that was one
of my first ideas.
But where do I get my hands
on a polymer plasma
composed of elements
I didn't even know existed
24 hours ago?
Aren't Voyager's engines
powered by warp plasma?
different substance.
Well, it's a very
It's too highly charged.
the robot's systems in seconds.
It would burn out
trying to give a Bolian
It would be like
a blood transfusion
from a Vulcan.
Which ordinarily
would kill
the unfortunate Bolian.
have been instances
But there
when artificial blood
was unavailable,
and existing blood cells
were genetically altered
for interspecies
transfusions.
but warp plasma radiates
It's a good idea,
to alter electro-chemically.
at too high a frequency
Unless...
Go on...
I could modify a series
of anodyne relays,
to the robot's power module.
attach them directly
as a sort of regulator
They could act
the warp plasma compatible
to make
with the robot's
energy matrix!
what I was going to suggest.
That's exactly
That's the last
of the relays.
The plasma injector
is sealed.
This is your show,
Lieutenant.
you're ready.
Whenever
Activating the relays.
start the infusion.
All right, Harry,
20% nominal flow.
Initiating plasma flow.
Energy levels
are up 14%.
are holding.
The relays
a little more juice.
Harry, give it
Got it.
I'm taking it
to 30 percent.
35 percent.
Wait. The energy levels
are rising too fast.
to burn out its systems.
We're going
But it needs more plasma.
What about increasing the
capacitance of the relays?
Let's give it a try.
It's stabilizing.
Hold the flow
right there
and see what happens.
The plasma's
circulating.
The programming center
is activated.
I think we may have done it.
( gasps )
Please identify yourself.
MALE COMPUTER VOICE:
I'm Lieutenant
B'Elanna Torres
of the Federation
Starship Voyager.
I am Automated
Unit 3-9-4-7.
Thank you for reactivating me,
Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres.
( dramatic theme playing )
TORRES: Chief Engineer's Log:
Supplemental.
The robot's power module
is continuing
to function normally,
using plasma
from our warp engines.
Repairing its systems
has taught me
than I ever could have learned
more about robotics
at Starfleet Academy.
( device chittering )
I think we're past
the critical stage.
I concur.
self-diagnostic systems,
According to my
Automated Personnel Unit 3947
is currently functioning
operating capabilities.
at 68% of peak
Automated Personnel
Unit 3947
well-designed machine.
is an extremely
Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres
proficient humanoid.
is an extremely
So how did you end up floating
in space so badly damaged?
an asteroid-mining pod.
I was operating
It exploded.
caused the explosion?
Do you know what
I am unable to access
that information.
are not yet functioning
My memory cells
at optimal efficiency.
where you come from?
Do you remember
I am stationed aboard
a Pralor vessel.
Well, we'll do our best
to find your ship
and return you
to your people.
Thank you.
I'm hoping that the memory loss
is only temporary.
Once the new plasma
has a chance
to fully integrate
into your systems,
pretty close to... optimal.
I think you'll be
The new plasma?
your power module
Yes, I adapted
to accept our warp plasma
as an energy source.
You repaired my power module?
Are you a Builder?
A Builder?
you could say that.
Well, I guess
I'm an engineer.
I'm responsible for repairing
and maintaining
all the systems on the ship.
Only the Builders
were capable
of constructing or repairing
power modules.
the people who created you?
The Builders are...
Yes.
And they're humanoids?
Like me?
Yes. Like Lieutenant
B'Elanna Torres.
a new power module.
You could create
You don't need
a new module.
The one I just fixed
will work fine now.
The new power module
will not be for me.
It will be a prototype
for the construction
automated units.
of additional
Can't the Builders make
additional units?
The Builders no longer exist.
Apparently, thousands of them
were built as service modules.
But the race who created them--
these Builders--
decades ago in a war.
were killed off
Leaving the automated units
to fend for themselves.
Now they're wearing out,
breaking down.
They've learned to make
repairs for themselves--
some pretty complex.
But the construction
of a power module--
which sustains them--
the device
is beyond their grasp.
It's... an incredible
challenge, Captain.
to study their systems
But with enough time
I might be able
to do it.
your abilities, B'Elanna,
I don't doubt
but helping them reproduce
of the Prime Directive.
is a clear violation
a desire to procreate.
They've expressed
to any lifeform.
That's basic
they don't have the same rights
I'm not saying
That's not the issue here.
as any organic species.
Are you sure?
they were organic.
Suppose
had become sterile.
But they
And we had a treatment
that would enable them
to start reproducing again.
Would you withhold
that treatment?
Maybe. I'd have to know more
about the circumstances.
But we're not talking
a disorder here, are we?
about treating
What's the difference?
that's become sterile,
Unlike a species
the ability to reproduce.
these robots never had
is giving them new abilities,
What you're talking about
which is the equivalent
their genetic structure.
of altering
To correct a flaw.
You can't call it
a flaw.
they were designed.
This is the way
I'm trying to save them
from extinction.
Unfortunately, extinction is
often the natural end of
evolution.
So you'll just willing to let
their entire society die off?
that's going to happen.
We don't know
If they're adaptable as you say,
and capable of educating
themselves,
power module themselves someday.
they might learn to build a
"Someday" could be
too late.
There are only a few
hundred of them left.
the robots' plight.
I feel for
is exactly the kind of tampering
But what you're proposing
the Prime Directive
prohibits.
We know almost nothing
about these creatures,
that built them.
or the race
What would be the consequences
of increasing their population?
Both to their own civilization
and others in this quadrant?
to swoop in, play god,
Who are we
and then continue on our way
without the slightest
consideration
of the the long-term effects
Captain...
of our actions?
your scientific curiosity,
B'Elanna, I share
and I admire your compassion,
but the answer is no.
with your captain's decision.
I do not concur
our Prime Directive.
She's following
"Prime Directive."
Define
It forbids us
to interfere
in the natural development
of other cultures.
were not created naturally.
The automated units
We were built.
You could help us
build more.
that's a good idea.
Captain Janeway
doesn't think
B'Elanna Torres does.
But Lieutenant
Maybe...
I don't know...
I'd like to try...
but I can't.
we will not survive.
Without your help,
( sighs )
I thought Lieutenant
B'Elanna Torres
was a Builder.
So did I.
We've located your ship.
We should be in communications
range in about an hour.
Thank you.
The alien vessel is entering
visual range, Captain.
Yellow Alert.
Slow to one-quarter impulse.
Put them on screen,
Ensign Kim.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Magnify.
We're being scanned, Captain.
TUVOK:
Let them take a look.
That's all right.
Open the channel.
Personnel Unit 6263
Pralor Automated
requests you identify
yourselves.
Kathryn Janeway
I'm Captain
of the Federation
Starship Voyager.
What are your intentions,
Captain Kathryn Janeway?
one of your crew members--
We rescued
to return him to your ship.
Unit 3947-- and we'd like
to receive the unit.
We'll prepare
for your assistance.
Thank you
these automated units.
Very polite,
gave me permission
Captain Janeway
to give you some
extra warp plasma
in case the plasma
we've infused into
your system
starts to degrade.
Thank you.
the anodyne relays periodically.
And you'll have to re-modulate
repeating instructions
You are
already given me, B'Elanna.
you have
I'm just making sure.
this is good-bye.
Well, I guess
( grunts in pain )
What are you doing?
( gasps )
chromo-dynamic energy discharge
Captain, I'm detecting a
in Transporter Room Two.
Transporter Room Two.
Bridge to
Janeway to Torres.
( scanner chittering )
initiating a transport.
Captain, someone's
Override.
and the robot.
It's Torres
I can't block it.
Their patterns are already
in the buffer.
They're gone, Captain.
back now, Mr. Kim.
Transport her
KIM: I can't get
a lock on her.
TUVOK: They have erected
some sort of
field around their vessel.
subspace defense
Our targeting scanners
cannot penetrate it.
Hail them.
KIM: They're not
responding.
on wide-band subspace.
Open a channel
Channel open.
This is Captain Janeway.
of our crew member
Your abduction
is a clear act of aggression.
If you do not return her
immediately,
we will be forced
to retaliate.
Confirm that they've received
the transmission, Mr. Kim.
They heard us all right.
They're just not answering.
power the forward phaser banks.
Mr. Tuvok,
is going on here?
What the hell
you will assist
This is where
of the prototype.
in the creation
I can't help you!
I told you
Now return me to my ship.
That is not possible.
Torres to Voyager.
Your communication device
has been deactivated.
injure you, B'Elanna.
I do not wish to
I reactivated you.
I helped you.
Why are you doing this?
We require additional
automated units
our extinction.
to prevent
Captain Janeway won't let you
get away with this!
for your captain to provoke us.
It would be inadvisable
Still no response, Captain.
Mr. Tuvok, any luck
Negative.
penetrating their
defense field?
any sign that they're
Commander, is there
preparing to attack?
difficult to get clear readings.
Their shielding is making it
their weapons capabilities are.
I can't even tell you what
Mr. Tuvok, I don't want you
to hit their ship,
but I do want you to open a hole
in their shielding
to transport through.
wide enough
Understood.
match the targeting scanners
Mr. Kim,
to the coordinates
of the phaser fire,
to beam B'Elanna back.
and stand by
Phasers calibrated.
Fire.
Their field strength
is down to 80%.
That's progress.
Fire again.
( deep rumbling )
Initiating evasive pattern
Omega Six.
They're firing
some kind of
quantum resonance charges,
Captain.
are down to 53% and dropping.
Our aft shields
Rerouting power
to aft shields.
Down to 24%.
Switching evasive pattern
to Theta One.
torpedo bays one through four
Lieutenant Tuvok, load
and stand by to fire
on my order.
Your captain has made
a tactical error
by attacking us.
Our weapons systems
are substantially
superior to yours.
Your shields are failing.
Your weapons pose
no threat to us.
have been penetrated.
Aft shields
to get out of here.
We've got
Agreed.
We'll try to come back
for B'Elanna later.
Do it, Mr. Paris.
Warp Three.
Propulsion systems are off-line.
We're dead in the water.
( alarm blaring )
Hull breach on Deck Six.
emergency containment field.
Initiating
Environmental control systems
are failing.
on decks three through seven
Oxygen levels
have dropped to Critical.
We've lost artificial gravity
on Deck Eight.
Injury reports from all decks.
( rumbling impact )
( Janeway grunts )
You've got to stop this.
Your ship opened fire.
to defend ourselves.
We are programmed
Can't you see that?
They're helpless.
must be destroyed.
Our enemies
We a not your enemies.
my enemy, B'Elanna,
You are not
but your captain is,
follows her commands.
and your crew
Captain Janeway
backed me
to reactivate you,
when I wanted
her Chief Security Officer.
over the objections of
if it weren't for her.
You wouldn't be here
All right.
If that's what it will take
to stop this, I'll do it.
damned prototype.
I'll build your
life support, Captain.
We're losing
The robots have powered down
their weapons systems.
They're hailing us, Captain.
On screen.
is everybody okay?
Captain,
We'll be all right.
What about you?
( sighs )
I've agreed to help them
build their prototype.
Lieutenant...
I know how you feel
about this, Captain.
I don't like it either,
they'll destroy Voyager.
but if I don't do it,
What choice do I have?
UNIT 3947: These are all
the materials necessary
a prototype unit.
to construct
with whatever additional
You will be provided
tools and equipment
you require.
You may access our database
and schematic information
from this computer terminal,
but it will not allow you
with any critical systems.
to interface
While you're on board,
you will have no contact
with your ship,
nor will you leave
this room.
to supervise your work.
I will remain here
You may proceed.
Proceed. Right.
where do I proceed from?
But the question is,
Let me ask you this.
Have any of you ever tried
to build a prototype?
We have tried,
and failed.
What was the problem?
I am unable to explain
the failure.
We duplicated a power module
to exact specifications
on several occasions,
but in all instances
the energy output of the new
module was insufficient to
operate a unit.
And you're sure you reproduced
the module exactly?
This is a schematic
of a power module
from a terminated unit.
a failed prototype.
This one is from
They are identical.
There is no reason why one
should function while
the other does not.
what can you report?
Unit 3947,
for about five minutes.
We've been working
Well, let's see.
a lot of progress to report.
So, I guess we don't have
that the humanoid vessel
Our sensors indicate
will require approximately
140 hours to repair.
It is necessary for
you to complete work
on the prototype
before that time.
Why? We don't seem to be
any match for you.
Our tactical subprocessors
indicate a 79% likelihood
will be attempted
that a rescue
once sufficient repairs
are completed.
At optimal efficiency,
your engines are more
powerful than ours.
It is also possible
that these humanoids
based on tactical probabilities.
will not make decisions
Their cognitive process
is... unpredictable.
full tactical alert.
We will remain on
purposefully attempt
The humanoid may
to delay completion
of the prototype,
she will be rescued.
hoping
means anything to you people,
I don't know if a promise
but it does to us.
that I'd do my best. And I will.
I gave you my word
According to my observations,
the humanoid is operating
at optimal efficiency.
Thank you.
But I have to tell you,
there are no guarantees here.
Building a prototype
from scratch
is a lot different
a broken power module.
than repairing
I don't even know
if it's possible.
you and your people will die.
If you fail,
B'Elanna Torres,
a designated command unit.
6263 is
He is merely following
his programming.
I don't need to be threatened.
I told you I'd do my best.
but Unit 6263 does not.
I believe you,
He does not know Lieutenant
B'Elanna Torres as I do.
terminated power modules.
Let me see one of those
We've managed to repair
the hull breach,
on decks three through seven.
but we have no power
completely nonfunctional.
Aft shields are still
And last but not least,
the dilithium matrix
is destabilized,
the warp engines running.
so we can't get
We're talking about at least
another six days of repairs.
We're not sticking
around that long.
B'Elanna off that ship
I want a plan to get
building the prototype.
before she can finish
In that case,
I suggest
we make warp drive
our priority.
will no doubt necessitate
Any rescue attempt
a rapid departure.
Agreed.
Mr. Kim, can you give me
an estimate
the dilithium matrix?
on repairing
How does 72 hours sound?
Like 24 hours too long.
Dismissed.
the sub-micron scanner.
TORRES: Hand me
( whirring )
Phase coil resonator.
your other prototypes failed,
Well, I think I know why
but... I'm not sure I know
what to do about it yet.
Explain.
The automated units
are modular.
Your parts are identical,
interchangeable, right?
That is correct.
So...
If you lose an arm,
you can replace it
with another one,
and over the years, you've
learned to make new arms
they're all the same,
because
is sophisticated enough
and your programming
to allow you to reproduce
what you see,
but each power module
has a slightly different
energy signature,
this guy's module exactly,
so, even if you copy
in any other unit.
it wouldn't work
As far as I can tell,
every automated unit
has a power module with
a unique energy code.
Can you reprogram
the energy codes
to make the modules
interchangeable?
I don't think so.
You have failed.
I will inform 6263.
Hey!
automated units give up
Do all you
the minute you hit
a bump in the road?
an alternative idea?
Do you have
What we've got to do
a standardized module
is design
with a uniform energy code
that can power any unit.
According to my observations,
there is now sufficient reason
for greater optimism.
right out of my mouth.
You took the words
TUVOK: Due to the complexity
of their defense field,
and our severe power shortage,
it is unlikely that we can
modify the transporters
Lieutenant Torres out.
to beam
But if we can maneuver
inside the field...
could get the job done.
Our transporters
viable option?
Is that a
For a shuttlecraft,
it may be.
They were able to knock
in a matter of minutes.
out Voyager's shields
even more vulnerable.
A shuttle would be
It would be advisable to create
a diversion of some sort.
To take their attention
away from the shuttle.
Attack them again?
I don't want to risk that
a second time.
I don't need
a diversion.
I'll get her out of there.
Just give me a chance.
we give you a little
help, do you, Paris?
You don't mind if
I'd hate to lose
another shuttle.
for my welfare
Your concern
is heartwarming.
In another 12 hours
will be back on line.
our warp engines
I'd like to come up
with a diversion
Okay, gentlemen?
before then.
So far, so good.
I'm not getting any feedback
from the motor circuits.
of this unit, 3947?
the obstetrician
You going to be
Please rephrase
the question.
If this works,
of assembling the new units?
will you be in charge
as a ships maintenance unit.
I am programmed
I have no knowledge of design,
nor do any of the other
automated personnel.
volunteered for new duty.
Sounds like you just
watching closely.
I hope you're
I am observing your work.
However, I do not possess
your improvisational
capabilities.
Well, once we have
the prototype,
all you'd have to do is copy it.
something, 39.
Tell me
Can I call you 39?
I am Automated Unit 3947.
Fine.
3947,
on a bench like this one?
did you wake up
How long have you been alive?
I have been in service
1,314,807 hours
and 33 minutes.
I was activated by a Builder
from the Pralor homeworld.
Tell me something more
about these Builders.
Were they anything like us?
I have insufficient knowledge
of your culture
to provide an adequate response.
additional information?
Will you provide
about your culture.
Well, I asked
you should ask about mine.
Only fair
Does your culture include
artificial life-forms?
As a matter of fact, it does.
Are they similar
to the automated personnel
units aboard this ship?
in different shapes and sizes.
Well, they come
Some have limbs, some don't.
your cognitive abilities.
Most don't have
Are they your servants?
Well, I guess you could say
that the robots we use
are servants,
in a manner of speaking.
But they aren't sentient
like you.
In fact, we have
only one sentient
artificial life-form
in our society,
the same as any human.
and he is treated
The same. He is equal
to a Builder?
That's right.
just like you and I.
He works on a ship
He wears the same uniform I do.
What is his designant number?
like the rest of us. "Data."
He has a name,
to be acquainted with this Data.
Data. I would like
Well, it looks like this
standardized power module
is working pretty well so far.
You will succeed,
B'Elanna Torres.
Don't send me flowers yet.
I've still got to see
whether it will power
an actual unit.
I believe it will.
on the dilithium matrix.
We're making progress
to reinitialize the warp core
It should be stable enough
in about six hours.
Good. What about
our diversion?
Any suggestions?
When we were in the Maquis,
B'Elanna once linked
a holoemitter
to a deflector array
of another ship into space.
and projected an image
I like it.
But do we have enough power?
the warp core's on line.
We will by the time
I already have Kim working on
the holodeck...
Tuvok to Captain Janeway.
Go ahead.
an unidentified alien ship
I'm picking up
on long-range sensors.
for our coordinates.
It's heading
We're on our way.
Well, it fits.
Cross your fingers.
So far, so good.
Let's hope it can interface
with the unit.
( unit powers up )
( power fails )
not function correctly.
It does
It does not function
correctly yet.
should have programmed you
Your builders
with a little more patience.
I'm going to try adjusting
the flux capacitance.
( unit powers up )
Prototype Unit 0001 is ready
to accept programming.
We did it.
We actually did it.
B'Elanna Torres.
You did it,
I knew this task
would not exceed
your operating
capabilities.
is ready to accept programming.
Prototype Unit 0001
What are you doing?
I am congratulating you!
You're a father.
( laughing )
( rumbling )
No sign of organic life
aboard that ship either.
They appear to be manned
by automated units
virtually identical to those
operating the first ship.
that we've stumbled
Is it possible
of some kind of... robotic war?
into the middle
( dramatic theme playing )
We've got to get
Torres back now.
Agreed, but first I want
to show both those ships
this isn't our fight.
Ease us back on maneuvering
thrusters, Mr. Paris,
nice and steady.
The second ship
is hailing us.
On screen.
Cravic Automated Commander 122
requests you identify yourself.
is Kathryn Janeway,
My name
Captain of the Federation
Starship Voyager.
Withdraw from this area
immediately.
I'm afraid I can't do that.
One of my crew members
is being held hostage
aboard the Pralor vessel.
I won't leave without her.
your present coordinates
Remain at
and don't attempt to intervene,
or you will be fired on.
this new ship could be a...
Captain,
we've been looking for.
The diversion
Mr. Kim, what's the status
of our warp engines?
We're still an hour
away at best.
We may not have an hour.
Get down to Engineering.
as much power as you can
Be ready to give me
the minute we get Torres back.
Aye, Captain.
keep each other busy,
If those two ships
we may not need warp
to get away.
to the Shuttle Bay.
Mr. Paris, report
Yes, ma'am.
you have the con.
Chakotay,
Who are they?
Automated personnel units
of the Cravic homeworld.
another world?
Robots from
That is correct.
attacking you?
Why are they
They were programmed to
do so by their builders.
is ready to accept programming.
Prototype Unit 0001
the Pralor Builders--
The Cravic Builders,
Were they enemies?
That is correct.
can contact the Cravic leaders
Look, maybe Captain Janeway
to stop the fighting, then...
and convince them
That is not possible.
Why not?
The Cravic are also extinct.
I'm approaching the perimeter
of the defense field.
Acknowledged.
TUVOK:
shield harmonics
Rotate your
they are synchronized
until
with the frequency
of the field.
Shields synchronized.
I'm going in.
( shuttle struck by weapon )
Then again, maybe not.
It didn't work.
He bounced right
off the field.
Mr. Paris, re-set your heading
for coordinates 105.
Mark 4-0.
Uh, if I understand you, Tuvok,
into a direct line of fire
that would take me
with the Cravic ship.
The concentration of fire
Precisely.
in the Pralor defense field.
is opening a rift
Which I just might be able
to sneak through
a disruptor blast or two.
if I can dodge
Changing heading.
were annihilated,
If both sides
then why continue
your war?
3947: All automated
personnel units
to achieve victory.
were programmed
is ready to accept programming.
Prototype Unit 0001
The Cravic ship has penetrated
our defense shield.
in all these years
Has anyone
to stop this war?
ever tried
The Pralor and the Cravic
called a truce.
Wait a minute, if both sides
called a truce,
stop you from fighting?
then why didn't they
They attempted to do so.
And?
We terminated the Builders.
( dramatic theme playing )
Paris to Voyager.
I'm approaching the entry point.
Acknowledged.
Showing a rift
off your starboard bow.
in the defense field
I'm on it.
When it was anticipated
that the war would end,
the Builders no longer
required our services
and they attempted
to terminate us.
they became the enemy.
In doing so,
to destroy the enemy.
We are programmed
for our survival.
It is necessary
constructed the prototype,
Now that you have
we will soon outnumber
the Cravic units.
We will achieve victory.
( Torres grunts )
Fire units, report
This is 3947.
to the Reconstruction Bay
Number One.
The individual energy codes--
the Builders added them--
is that why
the procreation of these units?
to prevent
( gasps )
My God, what have I done?
is ready to accept programming.
Prototype Unit 0001
( warbling speech )
( zapping )
( grunts )
You have terminated
the prototype.
Yes. I have.
You will build another.
Never.
Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres,
you were not our enemy.
I told 6263
I never wanted to be your enemy.
I'm sorry.
Shuttle to Voyager.
I've got her, but she's injured.
Tell the doctor to stand by.
I clear the defense field.
Beam her out as soon as
Acknowledged, Mr. Paris.
The ships are continuing
to exchange fire, Captain.
They are ignoring
the shuttle.
Bridge to Engineering.
Stand by, warp engines.
the moment Mr. Paris gets back.
We'll engage
Aye, Captain.
( dramatic theme playing )
One pot of Landras blend,
compliments of the chef.
Mm. I never thought
Neelix's coffee
could taste so good.
I'll tell him
you said so.
( sighs )
I don't know what to say.
As far as I'm concerned,
you did what you thought
was necessary
to ensure the safety
of this crew.
Thank you.
It must have been difficult.
Difficult?
To destroy what you created.
It was necessary.
I read your report.
It was no small achievement,
B'Elanna.
You gave that unit life.
seen it, Captain.
You should have
It was incredible.
I installed that module,
and the prototype
looked up at me
for programming.
and asked me
it must have been difficult.
As I said,
It was necessary.
( dramatic theme playing )
theme music playing )
( dramatic